Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A.
What is IDE?
an IDE is a integrated development environment
What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
intellij, eclipse
Explain the entire java life cycle.
editor help you rite a .java code then compiler converts it into a .class code then goes through JVM(java virtual machine)
then in goes into the console
what is class?
the blueprint of an object
What is object?
the instance of a class
What is the entry point of an application?
the main method
Why main is static?
becauce it belongs go that class
Which class is the superclass of all classes?
the pafrent class or the class that every other class inherits from
What is difference between path and classpath variables?

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
in an interface you can Only declare methods without initialization, while in an abstract class you can initialize non
abstract methods.
Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
you can use an interface by using the implement key word. an abstract class you can use it by using extends key word
what is Access Specifier?
it specifies the acces the element has. examole a private element can only be accessed inside that class.
What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
OOP means object oriented programing, and it consists of abstraction, incapsulation, inheritance and polymorphism
What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
java.lang is imported by default and a package is a setspace that organizes a set of related classes and interfaces
What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
an API is an aplication programing interface and i've used Strign class API, math class API, etc.
Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
java does not support multiple inheritance because to avoid ambiguity.
What is method overloading and when it happens?
method overloading is using the same method with different parameters. used when ypu have different variables as parameters
using the same action. also used to have code cleanliness.
Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
exeptions in java are used to help an application run with errors and are handled using a try catch block
What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
static means that it belongs to that class. theyre used to access them without creating an object
What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
final menas that cant be changed and has a FINAL value. example a final class cant be inherited from, a final method cant
be overridden and a final variable cant have its value changed.
What is final, finally and finalize?
final means it cant be changed, finally is used as finally bloc to close connections and finalize is used to perform
clean up.
What is a constructor ?
a constructor is called when an instance of a class (object) is created
Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
yes
If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
the default constructor public ClassName(){}
What is "this" keyword in java ?
reference variable in java that is used to refer to an instance variable of an existing class.
What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
the super key word is used to access the elements of the "super" class
What is JVM stand for ?
java virtual machine
Is JVM platform independent?
No
What version of java are you using?
1.8
What is JAR stand for ?
java archive
What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
jvm runs java bytecode. the jdk is what you need to compile java source code.
What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
jve is java runtime environment
What is compile time and run time?

What is heap?
How java manage it's memory?
What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
What is Singleton class?
What is Serialization and Deserialization?
when to use transient variable in java?
Difference between while and do..while loop?
What is Enum?
used to store pre-defined data
What is Iterator?
Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
Why is String Immutable in Java?
What is constructor chaining in Java?
The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
What is JIT stands for?
Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
what is multithreading in java?
What is the use of synchronization in Java?
What is Framework?
What are the testing Framework available in java?
Difference between jUnit and testNG?
What are the dependencies for this project?
what is dependency injection in java?
What is static binding and dynamic binding?









